README.md, before:

# AI Expert Workflow MCP

An MCP server that implements the AI Expert Workflow for integration with Task Master, using OpenRouter API for AI capabilities.

## 🚀 Quick Start for End Users

If you just want to use the AI Expert Workflow MCP with Task Master, follow these steps:

### Setup

1. Install both MCPs globally:
   ```bash
   npm install -g ai-expert-workflow-mcp task-master-mcp
   ```

2. Configure your Cursor settings with both MCPs:
   ```json
   {
     "mcpServers": {
       "ai-expert-workflow": {
         "command": "npx",
         "args": ["-y", "ai-expert-workflow-mcp"],
         "env": {
           "ANTHROPIC_API_KEY": "YOUR_ANTHROPIC_API_KEY_HERE",
           "MODEL": "claude-3-sonnet-20240229",
           "MAX_TOKENS": 8000,
           "TEMPERATURE": 0.7
         }
       },
       "taskmaster-ai": {
         "command": "npx",
         "args": ["-y", "task-master-mcp"],
         "env": {
           "ANTHROPIC_API_KEY": "YOUR_ANTHROPIC_API_KEY_HERE",
           "MODEL": "claude-3-sonnet-20240229"
         }
       }
     }
   }
   ```

3. Enable the MCPs in your Cursor settings.

### Complete Workflow Example

#### Step 1: Plan your Product with the AI Product Manager
```
User: Can you start the AI Expert Workflow for my new mobile recipe app?

AI: I'll start the AI Expert Workflow to help you plan your mobile recipe app. What specific aspect would you like to begin with?

User: Let's create a PRD with the AI Product Manager. I want to build a recipe app that helps users find recipes based on ingredients they already have at home.

AI: [Asks clarifying questions about target users, key features, monetization, etc.]

User: [Provides detailed responses about the app vision]
```

#### Step 2: Generate the PRD with Task Master Integration
```
User: Can you generate a complete PRD document based on our consultation and save it for Task Master?

AI: [Generates comprehensive PRD with MVP focus and lean startup validation plan]

AI: Document saved to PRD.md and also saved for Task Master at scripts/prd.txt. You can now use Task Master to parse this PRD with: "Can you parse the PRD at scripts/prd.txt and generate tasks?"
```

#### Step 3: Create Tasks with Task Master
```
User: Can you parse the PRD at scripts/prd.txt and generate tasks?

AI: [Task Master parses the PRD and creates a structured list of tasks with priorities]

User: What's the next task I should work on?

AI: [Task Master suggests the highest priority task with implementation details]
```

#### Step 4: Implement Tasks
```
User: Help me implement the "Ingredient Search Feature" task.

AI: [Task Master provides guidance and code for implementing the specific feature]
```

This streamlined workflow transforms your idea into a well-planned product and organized development tasks, all through natural conversation with specialized AI experts.

## Features

- Consult with AI experts in three key roles:
  - AI Product Manager
  - AI UX Designer
  - AI Software Architect
- Generate comprehensive documents:
  - Product Requirements Document (PRD) with MVP focus and lean startup approach
  - UX Design Document with prototype descriptions and user testing plans
  - Software Architecture Specification with functional specifications and technical design
- Seamless integration with Claude Task Master

## Benefits of Using AI Expert Workflow MCP

- **Complete Project Planning**: Get expert guidance through the entire product planning process
- **Lean Startup Approach**: Focus on MVP definition and validation plans
- **User-Centered Design**: Create user experiences based on solid UX principles
- **Technical Excellence**: Design scalable architectures that meet your requirements
- **Task Master Integration**: Convert your PRD directly into development tasks
- **Cursor Integration**: Seamless workflow within your development environment

## Installation

### Local Development

1. Clone the repository:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/bacoco/ai-expert-workflow-mcp.git
   cd ai-expert-workflow-mcp
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```
   npm install
   ```

3. Configure environment variables:
   - Copy `.env.example` to `.env`
   - Add your OpenRouter API key to the `.env` file (get one from https://openrouter.ai/keys)

4. Build the project:
   ```
   npm run build
   ```

5. Start the server:
   ```
   npm start
   ```

6. Run tests (optional):
   ```
   # Run JavaScript tests
   npm test

   # Run TypeScript tests
   npm run test:ts

   # Or use the shell scripts
   ./tests/run-js-test.sh
   ./tests/run-ts-test.sh
   ```

   Test results will be saved to `tests/results/result_test.md` and `tests/results/result_test_ts.md`.

### Global Installation

```
npm install -g ai-expert-workflow-mcp
```

## Usage with Cursor AI

1. Add the MCP configuration to your editor:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "ai-expert-workflow": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "ai-expert-workflow-mcp"],
      "env": {
        "ANTHROPIC_API_KEY": "YOUR_ANTHROPIC_API_KEY_HERE",
        "MODEL": "claude-3-sonnet-20240229",
        "MAX_TOKENS": 8000,
        "TEMPERATURE": 0.7
      }
    },
    "taskmaster-ai": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "task-master-mcp"],
      "env": {
        "ANTHROPIC_API_KEY": "YOUR_ANTHROPIC_API_KEY_HERE",
        "PERPLEXITY_API_KEY": "YOUR_PERPLEXITY_API_KEY_HERE",
        "MODEL": "claude-3-sonnet-20240229",
        "PERPLEXITY_MODEL": "sonar-pro",
        "MAX_TOKENS": 64000,
        "TEMPERATURE": 0.2,
        "DEFAULT_SUBTASKS": 5,
        "DEFAULT_PRIORITY": "medium"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

2. Enable the MCP in your editor settings

3. Use natural language to interact with the AI Expert Workflow:

```
Can you start the AI Expert Workflow for my project?
Can you consult with the AI Product Manager to create a PRD for my project?
Can you generate a complete PRD document based on our consultation?
```

4. After generating your PRD, use Task Master to create tasks:

```
Can you parse the PRD at scripts/prd.txt and generate tasks?
```

## AI Expert Workflow

The workflow consists of three main phases:

### 1. Product Definition (AI Product Manager)

The Product Manager helps you create a PRD that includes:
- Product overview and problem statement
- User personas and user stories
- Feature requirements with priorities
- MVP scope definition
- Business model
- Lean startup validation plan

### 2. UX Design (AI UX Designer)

The UX Designer helps you create a UX document that includes:
- User personas and journey maps
- Information architecture
- Wireframe descriptions
- Prototype specifications
- User testing plans

### 3. Technical Architecture (AI Software Architect)

The Software Architect helps you create a specification that includes:
- System architecture
- Technology stack recommendations
- Functional specifications
- Technical design
- Integration requirements

## Task Master Integration

The AI Expert Workflow seamlessly integrates with Task Master:

1. When generating a PRD, use the `saveForTaskMaster` parameter:
   ```
   generateDocument productManager "Your project details" true
   ```

2. This saves your PRD in a format that Task Master can parse and creates Cursor workflow documentation

3. You can then use Task Master to create tasks:
   ```
   Can you parse the PRD at scripts/prd.txt and generate tasks?
   ```

4. Task Master will break down your PRD into actionable development tasks that you can track and implement

## For More Information

See the [Create-MCP.md](Create-MCP.md) file for a complete guide on creating your own AI Expert Workflow MCP server from scratch.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add .npmignore, update README for global installation, and introduce version update script
- Created a new `.npmignore` file to exclude unnecessary development and test files from the npm package.
- Updated `README.md` to include instructions for global installation of the `ai-expert-workflow-mcp` package.
- Added `update-version.js` script to facilitate version updates in `package.json`, including automated commit and tagging.
- Introduced new test installation files and a test script to verify package functionality after installation.

README.md, after:

# AI Expert Workflow MCP

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/ai-expert-workflow-mcp.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/ai-expert-workflow-mcp)

An MCP server that implements the AI Expert Workflow for integration with Task Master, using OpenRouter API for AI capabilities.

## 🚀 Quick Start for End Users

If you just want to use the AI Expert Workflow MCP with Task Master, follow these steps:

### Setup

1. Install both MCPs globally:
   ```bash
   npm install -g ai-expert-workflow-mcp task-master-mcp
   ```

2. Configure your Cursor settings with both MCPs:
   ```json
   {
     "mcpServers": {
       "ai-expert-workflow": {
         "command": "npx",
         "args": ["-y", "ai-expert-workflow-mcp"],
         "env": {
           "ANTHROPIC_API_KEY": "YOUR_ANTHROPIC_API_KEY_HERE",
           "MODEL": "claude-3-sonnet-20240229",
           "MAX_TOKENS": 8000,
           "TEMPERATURE": 0.7
         }
       },
       "taskmaster-ai": {
         "command": "npx",
         "args": ["-y", "task-master-mcp"],
         "env": {
           "ANTHROPIC_API_KEY": "YOUR_ANTHROPIC_API_KEY_HERE",
           "MODEL": "claude-3-sonnet-20240229"
         }
       }
     }
   }
   ```

3. Enable the MCPs in your Cursor settings.

### Complete Workflow Example

#### Step 1: Plan your Product with the AI Product Manager
```
User: Can you start the AI Expert Workflow for my new mobile recipe app?

AI: I'll start the AI Expert Workflow to help you plan your mobile recipe app. What specific aspect would you like to begin with?

User: Let's create a PRD with the AI Product Manager. I want to build a recipe app that helps users find recipes based on ingredients they already have at home.

AI: [Asks clarifying questions about target users, key features, monetization, etc.]

User: [Provides detailed responses about the app vision]
```

#### Step 2: Generate the PRD with Task Master Integration
```
User: Can you generate a complete PRD document based on our consultation and save it for Task Master?

AI: [Generates comprehensive PRD with MVP focus and lean startup validation plan]

AI: Document saved to PRD.md and also saved for Task Master at scripts/prd.txt. You can now use Task Master to parse this PRD with: "Can you parse the PRD at scripts/prd.txt and generate tasks?"
```

#### Step 3: Create Tasks with Task Master
```
User: Can you parse the PRD at scripts/prd.txt and generate tasks?

AI: [Task Master parses the PRD and creates a structured list of tasks with priorities]

User: What's the next task I should work on?

AI: [Task Master suggests the highest priority task with implementation details]
```

#### Step 4: Implement Tasks
```
User: Help me implement the "Ingredient Search Feature" task.

AI: [Task Master provides guidance and code for implementing the specific feature]
```

This streamlined workflow transforms your idea into a well-planned product and organized development tasks, all through natural conversation with specialized AI experts.

## Features

- Consult with AI experts in three key roles:
  - AI Product Manager
  - AI UX Designer
  - AI Software Architect
- Generate comprehensive documents:
  - Product Requirements Document (PRD) with MVP focus and lean startup approach
  - UX Design Document with prototype descriptions and user testing plans
  - Software Architecture Specification with functional specifications and technical design
- Seamless integration with Claude Task Master

## Benefits of Using AI Expert Workflow MCP

- **Complete Project Planning**: Get expert guidance through the entire product planning process
- **Lean Startup Approach**: Focus on MVP definition and validation plans
- **User-Centered Design**: Create user experiences based on solid UX principles
- **Technical Excellence**: Design scalable architectures that meet your requirements
- **Task Master Integration**: Convert your PRD directly into development tasks
- **Cursor Integration**: Seamless workflow within your development environment

## Installation

### Global Installation (Recommended)

The easiest way to use AI Expert Workflow MCP is to install it directly from npm:

```bash
npm install -g ai-expert-workflow-mcp
```

This makes the `ai-expert-workflow-mcp` command globally available in your terminal.

### Local Development

1. Clone the repository:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/bacoco/ai-expert-workflow-mcp.git
   cd ai-expert-workflow-mcp
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```
   npm install
   ```

3. Configure environment variables:
   - Copy `.env.example` to `.env`
   - Add your OpenRouter API key to the `.env` file (get one from https://openrouter.ai/keys)

4. Build the project:
   ```
   npm run build
   ```

5. Start the server:
   ```
   npm start
   ```

6. Run tests (optional):
   ```
   # Run JavaScript tests
   npm test

   # Run TypeScript tests
   npm run test:ts

   # Or use the shell scripts
   ./tests/run-js-test.sh
   ./tests/run-ts-test.sh
   ```

   Test results will be saved to `tests/results/result_test.md` and `tests/results/result_test_ts.md`.

## Usage with Cursor AI

1. Add the MCP configuration to your editor:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "ai-expert-workflow": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "ai-expert-workflow-mcp"],
      "env": {
        "ANTHROPIC_API_KEY": "YOUR_ANTHROPIC_API_KEY_HERE",
        "MODEL": "claude-3-sonnet-20240229",
        "MAX_TOKENS": 8000,
        "TEMPERATURE": 0.7
      }
    },
    "taskmaster-ai": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "task-master-mcp"],
      "env": {
        "ANTHROPIC_API_KEY": "YOUR_ANTHROPIC_API_KEY_HERE",
        "PERPLEXITY_API_KEY": "YOUR_PERPLEXITY_API_KEY_HERE",
        "MODEL": "claude-3-sonnet-20240229",
        "PERPLEXITY_MODEL": "sonar-pro",
        "MAX_TOKENS": 64000,
        "TEMPERATURE": 0.2,
        "DEFAULT_SUBTASKS": 5,
        "DEFAULT_PRIORITY": "medium"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

2. Enable the MCP in your editor settings

3. Use natural language to interact with the AI Expert Workflow:

```
Can you start the AI Expert Workflow for my project?
Can you consult with the AI Product Manager to create a PRD for my project?
Can you generate a complete PRD document based on our consultation?
```

4. After generating your PRD, use Task Master to create tasks:

```
Can you parse the PRD at scripts/prd.txt and generate tasks?
```

## AI Expert Workflow

The workflow consists of three main phases:

### 1. Product Definition (AI Product Manager)

The Product Manager helps you create a PRD that includes:
- Product overview and problem statement
- User personas and user stories
- Feature requirements with priorities
- MVP scope definition
- Business model
- Lean startup validation plan

### 2. UX Design (AI UX Designer)

The UX Designer helps you create a UX document that includes:
- User personas and journey maps
- Information architecture
- Wireframe descriptions
- Prototype specifications
- User testing plans

### 3. Technical Architecture (AI Software Architect)

The Software Architect helps you create a specification that includes:
- System architecture
- Technology stack recommendations
- Functional specifications
- Technical design
- Integration requirements

## Task Master Integration

The AI Expert Workflow seamlessly integrates with Task Master:

1. When generating a PRD, use the `saveForTaskMaster` parameter:
   ```
   generateDocument productManager "Your project details" true
   ```

2. This saves your PRD in a format that Task Master can parse and creates Cursor workflow documentation

3. You can then use Task Master to create tasks:
   ```
   Can you parse the PRD at scripts/prd.txt and generate tasks?
   ```

4. Task Master will break down your PRD into actionable development tasks that you can track and implement

## For More Information

See the [Create-MCP.md](Create-MCP.md) file for a complete guide on creating your own AI Expert Workflow MCP server from scratch.

## License

MIT
